For this screencast, we will go through the following steps.
First, we will select the groups which we will analyze and then we will
prepare the data and finally analyze different metrics with the groups.
Now, that you learned a little about aequitas
and the importance of demographic bias analysis.
Let's get to actual using the tool and go through
those three steps for analyzing our dataset for demographic bias analysis.
In this walk through,
we will use the MPG model that we walked through earlier.
In this case though,
we'll think of demographics in terms of cars.
First, we must select the field that we want to include in our analysis group.
In this case, we will choose the origin field which is the country of origin for a car.
In this part, I'm just adding the test data origin field to the output model results.
You can see this example here.
Now, we can move to actually preparing the data for the analysis.
Aequitas provide some pandas preprocessing functions.
Also for this step,
we will fill null values as well with negative one as a placeholder value.
This is largely the boilerplate code that
they are provided for preparing data for analysis.
But please look at the documentation for more details if you have any further questions.
Now, we're ready to analyze the data.
First, let's visualize the true positive rate or recall.
For this function, we take the DataFrame from
the preprocessing step and the TPR string as an argument,
as well as an argument for including
only groups with at least five percent or more of the data.
In this case, you can see TPR being similar between the three countries of origin.
So no apparent bias in the model results across the three countries for origin.
Now, let's use a similar method to visualize the false positive rate.
In this case, you can see that
the false positive rate for Japan is much higher than other groups.
Perhaps, there could be characteristics of
cars from this country that are leading to this type of error.
This visualization is more for flagging and identifying
risks of key demographic groups that you're seeing in your prediction values.
Demographic bias analysis on
model predictions isn't exciting important part of building models,
that represent and meet the needs of broader society.
In this walk through, while you may not have dealt with patient demographics yet,
you have learned some of the key methods in
this exercise that will allow you to do this in the course.